



Network Working Group                                   I. Nadareishvili
Internet-Draft                                        September 15, 2016
Intended status: Informational
Expires: March 19, 2017


    Transclude Preference for the Prefer Header for HTTP (RFC-7240)
                draft-inadarei-prefer-transclude-xml-01

Abstract

   The specification for Transclude preference is an extension to the
   Prefer Header for HTTP [RFC7240].  It works similar to other
   preferences defined in [RFC7240], such as: return, respond-async,
   wait and handling.

Note to Readers

   Please discuss this draft on the apps-discuss mailing list
   (<https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/apps-discuss>).

   Online access to all versions and files is available on GitHub
   (<https://github.com/inadarei/draft-prefer-transclude>).

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on March 19, 2017.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents



Nadareishvili            Expires March 19, 2017                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft         Transclude for HTTP Prefer         September 2016


   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Requirements notation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   3.  Transclude Usage Example  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   5.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   Author's Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

1.  Requirements notation

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

2.  Introduction

   "Prefer Header for HTTP" [RFC7240] proposes an HTTP header that can
   be used to indicate that particular server behaviors are preferred by
   the client but are not required for successful completion of the
   request.  It further defines several standard Preferences, such as
   the "return" preference.  The "return" preference lets the server
   know that the client would prefer a specific representation of a
   resource in a response payload, e.g. full representation vs. a
   minimal one.

   Preferences like the "return" one are critical for mobile scenarios
   as mobile applications are very sensitive to network latency,
   throughput and anything that can improve end-user experience, even on
   resource-constrained networks.  Prefer header allows servers to tune
   and optimize its response payload based on client preferences, for
   instance: to only send mobile app a minimal response when it doesn't
   need full resource.

   The size of the payload is not the only preference that can improve
   user-experience in mobile scenarios, however.  Closely related to the
   size of the payload, is the number of HTTP requests a client needs to
   make to get all of the required data.  This is the challenge that
   "transclude" preference addresses.




Nadareishvili            Expires March 19, 2017                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft         Transclude for HTTP Prefer         September 2016


   When server sends hypermedia responses (e.g. in the case of
   Hypermedia APIs) some of the response data may be referenced via a
   URI link instead of being embedded in the payload itself.  The need
   to grab data from a link can degrade experience of mobile
   applications, since they are forced to make multiple requests to per
   single end-user request.  This is sometimes referred to as "chatty
   interface" and is a significant problem for mobile and Internet of
   Things scenarios.

   Transclude preference notifies the server that the client would
   prefer the server to proactively transclude certain content
   represented by links of indicated link relation types.  The notion of
   "link relation type", in this context is as defined by [RFC5988].

   As a result of using a transclude preference, a client receives all
   of the required data already embedded in the response output, without
   the need to make additional network calls.

3.  Transclude Usage Example

   Following is an example of a client asking server to transclude data
   represented at the copyright, edit-form and "other-form" links.
   Since "other-form" is not a standard, IANA link relation type, client
   is using a URI for identifying the link relation type.

       Get /blog/1223 HTTP/1.1
       Host: api.example.org
       Content-Type: application/json
       Prefer: transclude=copyright,edit-form,http://rels.com/other-form
       Vary: Prefer,Accept,Accept-Encoding

4.  Security Considerations

   None.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "RFC-2119", RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC5988]  Nottingham, M., "Web Linking (RFC-5988)", RFC 5988,
              October 2010.

   [RFC7240]  Snell, J., "Prefer Header for HTTP (RFC-7240)", RFC 7240,
              June 2014.







Nadareishvili            Expires March 19, 2017                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft         Transclude for HTTP Prefer         September 2016


Author's Address

   Irakli Nadareishvili

   URI:   http://freshblurbs.com














































Nadareishvili            Expires March 19, 2017                 [Page 4]
